Operator 1.3.0 RNs.mdx (#1448)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/operator.mdx

---

## 1.3 Release Notes

### 1.3.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx 2026

#### Release Highlights

> Tyk Operator v1.3.0 delivers improvements for API monitoring and ingress management in Kubernetes environments. This release adds native uptime test configuration support for both Classic and OAS API definitions, eliminating the need for manual Dashboard configuration. The ingress controller now properly respects custom strip listen path settings from OAS templates, and the operator has been updated to Go 1.25 for improved performance and enhanced security. For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v1.3.0) below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Operator v1.3.0 delivers improvements for API monitoring and ingress management in Kubernetes environments. This release adds native uptime test configuration support for both Classic and OAS API definitions, eliminating the need for manual Dashboard configuration. The ingress controller now properly respects custom `strip` listen path settings from OAS templates, and the operator has been updated to Go 1.25 for improved performance and enhanced security.

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v1.3.0) below.
```

Given the time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend customers verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

#### Deprecations
There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions

Go to the [Upgrading Tyk Operator](/tyk-stack/tyk-operator/installing-tyk-operator) section for detailed upgrade instructions.

#### Downloads
- [Docker image v1.3.0](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-operator/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v1.3.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-operator:v1.3.0
    ```
- Helm chart
  - [tyk-charts v5.1.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#500-release-notes)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v1.3.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Changed 

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title='Go 1.25 Update'>
The Tyk Operator now runs on Go 1.25, providing improved performance, enhanced security, and access to the latest language features. This update ensures the Operator remains current with supported Go versions and reduces exposure to security vulnerabilities found in older runtime versions.

> </Accordion>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Golang 1.25 Update'>
The Tyk Operator now runs on Golang 1.25, providing improved performance, enhanced security, and access to the latest language features. 

This update ensures the Operator remains current with supported Go versions and reduces exposure to security vulnerabilities found in older runtime versions.
</Accordion>
```

---

## 1.3 Release Notes

### 1.3.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx 2026

#### Release Highlights

> Tyk Operator v1.3.0 delivers improvements for API monitoring and ingress management in Kubernetes environments. This release adds native uptime test configuration support for both Classic and OAS API definitions, eliminating the need for manual Dashboard configuration. The ingress controller now properly respects custom `strip` listen path settings from OAS templates, and the operator has been updated to Go 1.25 for improved performance and enhanced security.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tyk Operator v1.3.0 delivers improvements for API monitoring and ingress management in Kubernetes environments. This release adds native uptime test configuration support for both Tyk OAS and Tyk Classic API definitions, eliminating the need for manual Dashboard configuration.
```

#### Deprecations
There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions

Go to the [Upgrading Tyk Operator](/tyk-stack/tyk-operator/installing-tyk-operator) section for detailed upgrade instructions.

#### Downloads
- [Docker image v1.3.0](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-operator/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v1.3.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-operator:v1.3.0
    ```
- Helm chart
  - [tyk-charts v5.1.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#500-release-notes)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v1.3.0" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Changed 

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title='Golang 1.25 Update'>
The Tyk Operator now runs on Golang 1.25, providing improved performance, enhanced security, and access to the latest language features. 

This update ensures the Operator remains current with supported Go versions and reduces exposure to security vulnerabilities found in older runtime versions.
</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Added

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Added Uptime Test Configuration Support in Tyk Operator'>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Added Uptime Test Configuration Support'>
```

> The Tyk Operator now supports configuring uptime tests directly in your API definitions through both Classic and OAS CRDs. You can now define multiple uptime tests with custom URLs, methods, timeouts, headers, and commands without needing to manually configure them in the Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Tyk Operator now supports configuration of [upstream uptime tests](/planning-for-production/ensure-high-availability/uptime-tests) directly in your API definitions through both Tyk OAS and Tyk Classic CRDs.
```

</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Fixed

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Fixed Strip Listen Path Configuration in Tyk Operator Ingress Controller'>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Tyk Operator Ingress Controller Now Respects Strip Listen Path Configuration'>
```

> The Tyk Operator ingress controller now properly respects the `strip` listen path configuration defined in your OAS API templates. This fix ensures that your template configurations are preserved while maintaining backward compatibility, as templates without an explicit strip setting will continue to default to `true`, and ACME challenge paths will still force `strip: false` as required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ingress controller now respects the [`listenPath.strip`](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas#listenpath) configuration defined in your Tyk OAS API templates. This fix ensures that template configurations are preserved while maintaining backward compatibility, as templates without an explicit strip setting will continue to default to `true`, and ACME challenge paths will still force `strip: false` as required.
```
